Introduction 


Finally, after years of pushing the idea, world-class chefs Ethan Lethridge and I, Kieran Duncan decided that it was finally time to 
team up and give the idea of a recipe book company a try.Maybe share some of the things we learned from the kitchen during our studies.
As our first book publication, we would like to thank and dedicate this book to the people who believed 
in us from the beginning during the long and difficult process, the family members and friends who supported us along the way.We cannot 
forget to mention our mentors. If it wasn't for them we wouldn't be where we are today.
However, this journey is what brought us to becoming world-class chefs and it is what inspired us to team up and become co-founders of a recipe book company.
The reason why we decided to create a recipe book company is because we wanted to share our experience gained through many years of culinary studies which 
took us all around the globe, to give the people at home a different taste of a home cooked meal. 
This was also done because we want to give the people at home a new type of
connection to a culture of food which were unfamiliar to the region.
Our experiences took us far and wide, from Italy to mastering pasta making, France to learn the art of bread and cheese making, all 
the way to japan to learn the fine art of sushi making.
Our first book contains just a few of the many recipes which for a reason or another we found to be interesting or which we found to be different.

We hope your enjoy!

  

Starter 



Tuna Dip Recipe

Ingredients needed:

200 grams light smoked tuna; 
1/2 a cup mayonnaise;
1/3 of a cup sour cream;
1/2 a small white onion;
1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce;
1/2 a teaspoon hot sauce;
1/2 a teaspoon soy sauce;
1 teaspoon garlic salt;
1/2 a teaspoon ground pepper;
2 stems scallion;
A few sprigs of parsley.

Method:
1.Open the tuna packages/cans and remove the brine/oil.
2.In a bowl, break and fluff the smoked tuna with a fork.
3.Add all of the sauces and seasonings listed above and gently mix.
4.Finely chop the parsley, white onion and scallion. 
5.Add them all to the mixture and mix.
6.Finally add the mayonnaise and mix them good.
7.Cover and chill in fridge at least 30 minutes before serving.

Note: Cream or cottage cheese may be used as a substitute for the mayonnaise. The same method aplies.




Bruschetta Starter Recipe

Ingredients needed:

7 ripe tomatoes; 
2 cloves of garlic, minced 
1 tablespoon of extra virgin olive oil;
1 teaspoon of balsamic vinegar;
6-8 fresh basil leaves; thinly sliced or chopped
1/4 teaspoon sea salt;
1/2 a teaspoon of freshly ground black pepper;
1 French baguette bread or similar Italian bread;
1/4 of a cup (60 ml) olive oil.

Method:
1.Boil 2 quarts of water.
2.Once the water is boiling remove from the pot.
3.Place the tomatoes in hot water and blanche for 1 minute.
4.Preheat the oven to 230 degrees celcuis.
5.Chop the tomatoes.
6.Toss the tomatoes with the garlic, olive oil, vinegar, basil, salt and pepper.
7.Use a knife to slice the baguette on the diagonal, making half-inch thick slices & brush one side of each slice with olive oil.
8.Place the slices in the oven at 230 degrees celcuis.
9.Leave the bread to roast for 5 to 6 minutes.
10.Use a spoon to gently top each toasted bread slice with some of the tomato mixture.


Main Course

Beef Fillet Recipe:

Ingredients:

800g of middle-cut fillet of beef;
1 tablespoon of black peppercorns;
55ml of balsamic vinegar;
450g medium red onions;
2 tablespoons chopped fresh thyme;
1 tablespoon of olive oil;
1 tablespoon of sugar;
salt;

For the sauce:
1 teaspoon of flour
275ml of red wine
1 tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce
1 tablespoon balsamic vinegar

Method:
1. Smear the beef with a little olive oil and crush the peppercorns coarsely.
2. Press the crushed peppercorns to the beef and pre-heat the oven to 230°C
3. Mix the sugar and balsamic vinegar together in a large bowl.
4. Give the mixture a good whisk and leave on the side for about 10 minutes.
5. Peel the onions and chop them in half first, then each half into four.
6. Add the onions and the tablespoon of olive oil to the sugar and vinegar mixture.
7. Once properly mixed, spread the onions on a baking tray leaving space for the beef in the centre.
8. Sprinkle over the thyme leaves and season with salt.
9. Place the beef in the centre of the tray, then into the oven for 15 minutes (for rare beef).
10. For medium remove the onions after 30 minutes and give the beef another 10 minutes with the oven switched off.
11. If you like it well-done leave it for another 15-20 minutes.
12. Keep everything warm whilst making the sauce.
13. Put a quarter of the onions into a saucepan over medium heat, then stir in the flour to coat the onions and whisk in the red wine, Worcestershire sauce and balsamic vinegar.
14. Let it just come up to simmering point and turn the heat down.
15. To serve carve the beef, garnished with the onions and sauce poured over.



Fettuccine Alfredo Recipe

Ingredients needed:

700grams of dry fettuccini pasta;
1 cup butter;
3/4 of a pint heavy cream;
pinch of salt;
pinch of pepper;
1 dash garlic salt;
3/4 of a cup grated Romano cheese;
1/2 a cup grated Parmesan cheese;


Method:
1.Prepare a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil. 
2.Add the fettuccini pasta and cook for 8 to 10 minutes or until al dente.
3.Drain. 
4.In a large saucepan, melt the butter into cream over low heat. 
5.Add salt, pepper, garlic salt. 
6.Add the grated Romano cheese along with the Parmesan cheese.
7.Stir in cheese over medium heat until melted; this will thicken the sauce. 
8.Add the pasta to sauce.
9.Use enough of the pasta so that all of the sauce is used and the pasta is thoroughly coated. 
10.Serve immediately. 




Desserts


Banoffee Pie Recipe

Ingedients needed:

For the base:
100g of butter, melted;
225g of light digestive biscuits, crushed;

For the caramel:
75g butter;
75g dark brown soft sugar;
397g can Carnation Condensed Milk;

For the top:
2 medium bananas; 
150ml carton whipping cream, lightly whipped;
Chocolate Shavings or Cocoa powder, to dust;

You will also need...
20cm loose-bottomed cake tin, greased.

Method:
1.Put the biscuit crumbs in your bowl.
2.Tip in the melted butter and mix it all together. 
3.Spoon this into the base and press against the bottom and sides – this is the base of the banoffee pie recipe. 
4.Chill it for ten minutes.  
5.Place 75g butter and sugar into a non-stick saucepan over a low heat, stirring all the time until the sugar has dissolved. 
6.Add the condensed milk and bring to a rapid boil for about a minute, stirring all the time for a thick golden caramel. 
7.Spread the caramel over the base, cool and then chill for about 1 hour, until firm or until ready to serve.
8.Carefully lift the pie from the tin and place on a serving plate. 
9.Slice the bananas; fold half of them into the softly whipped cream and spoon over the base. 
10.Decorate with the remaining bananas and finish with dusting cocoa powder on top or use grated chocolate to decorate the pie! 




Chocolate Cake Recipe

Ingredients:

Butter;
3 cups of flour;
3 cups of sugar;
1 1/2 cups unsweetened cocoa powder;
1 tablespoon baking soda;
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder;
1 1/2 teaspoons salt;
4 large eggs;
1 1/2 cups buttermilk;
1 1/2 cups warm water;
1/2 cup vegetable oil;
2 teaspoons vanilla extract

Method:

1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees and butter three 9-inch cake rounds
2. Mix together flour, sugar, cocoa powder, baking soda, baking powder, and salt in a stand mixer using a low speed until combined.
3. Add egss, buttermilk, warm water, oil and the vanilla extract. Beat on a medium speed until smooth.
4. Divide the batter among the three pans.
5. Bake for 30-35 minutes until a toothpick inserted into the centre comes out clean.
6. Cool on wire racks for 15 minutes.
7. Frost with your favourite frosting and enjoy!



Home made Sorbet Recipe

Ingredients needed:

3 cups (390g) raspberries or preferred type of fruit, frozen; 
1/4 of a cup (70g) fat-free condensed milk;
 
Method:
1.Combine the berries (fruit) and the condensed milk in a food processor or powerful blender and process until smooth and creamy.
2.Transfer to a freezable container and let it firm up for about 4 hours to be able to scoop.

Note:Keep in the freezer for up to 6 weeks.




Conclusion

To conclude our first ever recipe book publication, we would like to thank all the people who bought our book
and chose to give us and our book a chance. We hope that you were satisfied with the recipes that we picked to
present to the people at home as our first few ideas and we hope that we exceeded your expectations after
having tried some of the recipes. A second book is already in process, with the goal to give an even bigger
variety of recipe choices, while keeping in mind delicious recipes which take in to consideration food intollerences,
while also taking note of the recipes so as to introduce a few new recipes which are of a much higher level for all
those chefs at home who like to experiment a bit.

